# TopoTransform

This repository provides the **source code** to reproduce the results
presented in our [paper](). It depends on the
[TDANN](https://github.com/neuroailab/TDANN) repository.

## Setup

Please use **Python 3.11** for this repository. Any operating system
should be compatible.

Install the required packages (this typically takes \~20 minutes):

``` bash
# install core dependencies
pip install numpy scipy pandas scikit-learn torch torchvision h5py matplotlib opencv-python
pip install brainscore-core brainio nilearn
pip install git+https://github.com/YingtianDt/vision.git
pip install git+https://github.com/YingtianDt/neuroparc.git
```

Set the following environment variables to directories on your machine
where intermediate results, stimuli, and model checkpoints will be
stored:

    RESULTCACHING_HOME
    BRAINIO_HOME
    BRAINSCORE_HOME
    TORCH_HOME
    HF_HOME
    MMAP_HOME

See `config.py` for example configurations.

## Reproducibility

This section describes how to reproduce the results reported in the
paper.

### Training models

To train the models from scratch, first set the dataset paths correctly
in `config.py`. Then run:

``` bash
python train.py
```

This will train a **TopoTransform VJEPA model**.

### Evaluations

Evaluation scripts are located in files beginning with `scripts/plot_*`.
Results generated by these scripts will be cached in `cache/plots` (by
default).

To facilitate faster reproduction, we provide a **pre-computed cache**
containing the minimal data required to generate the figures.

Download the cache by running:

``` bash
bash download_cache.sh
```

The cache requires approximately **23 GB** of storage.

By default, it will be downloaded and extracted to:

    cache/debug

To use a different cache location, modify the path in `src/config.py`.
